Best Practices.
Well it's telling us that we're not
using HTTP 2, we're using localhost so
that isn't relevant to us right now.
Then this PWA icon is telling us that
we're missing some important stuff,
we don't have a ServiceWorker, and
we don't have a manifest file.
So we need to create both of those things.
We also need to add an Apple touch icon.
And once we've done all of those, this
application will be installable as a PWA,
then if you have an Android phone, you'll
get prompted to install it onto your phone
and then it will just behave like
a native app, which is kinda nice.
I am going to cheat though and
just try and bring in
those files directly from the repo where,
okay,
so I'm just gonna grab the serviceworker
that I created earlier from the complete
branch, get checkout complete --
src/service-worker.
And that's created a serviceworker with
a list of files that we want to cache
when the service worker gets installed.
And we've got a few handlers here,
when the install event happens,
it's gonna populate the cache
with all of those files.
It's then gonna delete any old
caches that are no longer relevant,
and then our fetch event handler.
This is the most important
part of any serviceworker.
When it gets a fetch event,
it's gonna go to the network first, and
if it fails, then it's gonna
fall back to the offline cache.
We need to add some more stuff in
our rollup.config at the moment,
we have a single config,
which is starting from src/main.js.
But we also need to have a config for
the ServiceWorker,
because we need to inject
that timestamp value up here.
So the cache gets invalidated every
time we deploy a new version of this
application.
So inside our rollup.config
we're gonna create one of
these input is src/service-worker.js.
And then we're gonna write that to
public/service-worker.js with
a format of esm,
and we're gonna add a plugin
which is gonna replace
that timestamp with the actual timestamp.
I'm gonna install a plugin called replace.
Add that to my config.
And then when it builds, the serviceworker
it's just gonna replace any references to
timestamp with the current
timestamp by that.
Okay, so now in our public folder,
we should have a service
worker that is indeed
referencing the current timestamp.
So that's gonna work,
now we just need to register
the service worker inside our main.js.
Here, if serviceworker in navigator object
because not everything
support service workers.
Navigates a serviceworker register and
then we're gonna give it
the name of that file.
And then we're gonna quickly
apply some of the other
recommendations that it had,
it asked for a theme color.
Again, all of this stuff is only important
if you want your application to be
installable on mobile phones,
as if it were an app that
you got from the App Store.
I'm gonna pull in the manifest
file from the same repo.
Right, this manifest file is
something that browsers look for
when they're determining whether or
not it can be installed
to the home screen.
It tells us the name of the game,
and description, and
also provides a link to an icon that
will be used when you start the app.
We just need to add a link to that
manifest inside our index.html.
Link rel = manifest href = manifest.json.
And I think that is gonna give
us a better lighthouse score.
So let's start saving
the application again, npm run dev.
Go back to an incognito window and
rerun lighthouse.
And it is a valid progressive web app.
And so now,
if we go to the deployed version
Whereas using compression and
everything's minified, I'm using HTTP 2.
We can see if we still get a decent
lighthouse score in real life.
And there we go, 100% across the board.
It's a valid progressive web app.
So if you go to this on
your phone right now,
if you have an Android then it
will invite you to install it.
If we go to the network tab and
inspect everything, click on the js tab.
This entire bungle, the entire
application is 8.3 kilobyte zit or
21.2 kilobytes minified the unzit.
And we managed to pack an entire game
into that pretty small pay load.
So that is a small application
built in about an hour and half.
You can review the repo and
go through the steps ,and catch
up on any points that you missed.
And make some improvements of your own,
and share them back to the repo so
that other people can see them too.